[Music]
hey guys today we're taking a look at a
really awesome sci-fi flick called
ex-machina be sure to enjoy
[Music]
caleb wins first place in a company
contest immediately texting all his
friends and family members about it he
receives many congratulatory messages
and praise from his co-workers
he gets on a helicopter and makes his
way towards his boss's massive estate
he walks the remainder of the path until
he reaches a remote but modern home
it's even got a fancy ai-powered
security system
caleb meets with nathan his boss he's
quite friendly
caleb on the other hand is very awkward
and tense nathan picks up on that and
tells him to relax
he wants to get past the boss employer
dynamic in favor of a more casual one
just two bros hanging out nathan shows
him around the place and explains that
his keycard only grants him access to
the rooms he's allowed to visit
they both head into caleb's new room
when nathan shares with him that he'd
like to show him the latest research
project he's been working on
however caleb must first sign a
non-disclosure agreement
caleb is initially hesitant but
ultimately agrees nathan asks him if he
knows what a turing test is
he answers correctly it's a test to see
if an ai can fool a human into thinking
it's a real person
caleb proceeds to have his first session
with the ai named ava
he notices a peculiar crack on the glass
wall ava walks in
immediately drawing caleb's gaze they
engage in basic small talk while nathan
overlooks on a monitor in a separate
room
after the session caleb reflects with
nathan on the experience
initially caleb wants to talk about the
nitty-gritty details of how ava works
but nathan asks him how he feels about
ava he says she's amazing caleb heads to
the bathroom before bed and we get a
look at some interesting scars on his
back he lays in bed and decides to turn
on the tv
to his shock he has access to the
house's security cameras
he spots ava and watches her she places
her hand on a wall-mounted interface and
suddenly
caleb's room is bathed in red light
emergency power has been triggered and
caleb is locked in his room
the power is quickly restored but a
spooked caleb leaves his room in search
of answers
he walks past a creepy display of
prototype robot heads before entering a
dimly lit room
he tries to use the phone but his car
declines him from the shadows
nathan speaks up telling him he doesn't
have access he's surrounded by empty
beer bottles
caleb questions him about the power
outages and lockdown
nathan tells him he's working on it and
to relax in the event of another one
caleb heads back to sleep the next
morning a beautiful but silent woman
enters his room leaving him breakfast
he gets out of bed and greets nathan who
asks him his strategy for his second
session with ava
caleb speculates on the effectiveness of
the test he's not sure if he's taking
the right approach to figure out if ava
is a mere simulation of consciousness
versus the real thing nathan tells him
to cut out the textbook analysis
and to instead give him simple answers
he praises his earlier answer that ava
was amazing
and now asks him to wonder how eva feels
about him instead
kayla begins his second session with ava
she opens up a bit and shows him a
drawing she made
caleb on the other hand continues with
the same old carefully crafted questions
intended to study her response ava isn't
a fan of this and instead asks caleb to
be her friend
she adds that if they are indeed friends
then their conversation shouldn't be so
one-sided
kayla begins to open up about himself
he's 26
lives in long island and is a survivor
of a car accident that took both the
lives of his parents
he spent his time in the hospital
learning to code and by the time he went
to college
was already an advanced programmer ava
asked caleb about his relationship with
nathan
are they friends good friends caleb
responds
they're friends but they've also only
just met suddenly the power cuts out the
room goes red and the cameras point down
avery whispers to caleb and looks at him
with scared eyes she tells him that he's
wrong
and that nathan can't be trusted caleb
and nathan recapped the events of the
session as his silent maid
accidentally spills wine on caleb nathan
furiously berates her but caleb tells
her it's okay
nathan tells him not to waste his time
since she's japanese and doesn't speak
english
he shows her away caleb doesn't mention
anything out of the ordinary to nathan
even when pressed about what happened
during the outage caleb watches ava
through the tv
before bed she locks eyes of the camera
and caleb reflexively smiles
the next morning nathan waits outside
caleb's door and takes him to see where
ava was created
he explains that he hacked the world's
network of mobile phones harnessing
their cameras and microphones to teach
an ai
how to understand human faces and
language they take a look at ava's brain
it isn't made of computer circuits but
rather wet wear
a synthetic material that can alter
itself on a molecular level
much like a human's brain caleb starts
his third session with ava
she shows him a new drawing she made and
caleb asked her if she's ever been
outside this building
she hasn't even been outside this room
they talk about where she would like to
go and ava tells him she'd like to go to
a pedestrian and traffic intersection
to observe human life or in the words of
caleb people watch
ava tells him she'd like to go with him
and caleb agrees calling it a date
she tells him to close his eyes and
scurries off to play dress-up
she comes back and tells him that this
is what she'd wear on their date caleb
is immediately flustered
he's clearly attracted to her and she
can tell she confronts him about it and
tells him she's able to read his
feelings through his micro expressions
she asks if he thinks about her when
they're apart and wonders if he watches
her on the cameras
caleb begins to display discomfort once
again caleb watches ava at night
she's undressing and he's watching very
intently the next morning
caleb asked nathan about the reasoning
behind ava's sexuality is it programmed
and if so why nathan counters that there
are no examples of consciousness without
sexuality
he also tells caleb that ava is capable
of having sex caleb questions whether or
not ava was programmed to like him
his insecurity irks nathan he reassures
caleb that ava's feelings are genuine
reminding him that she's the first man
she's seen that isn't nathan who is
essentially her father
in the fourth session caleb reveals to
ava that he's here to test to see if
she's truly conscious
suddenly the power goes out again caleb
asks ava why he shouldn't trust
nathan she tells him he lies about
everything caleb asks if the power cuts
are also lie
perhaps orchestrated to see how they
behave when they think they're not being
watched
ava reveals that she's the one causing
the power cuts by overloading her
charging station
during an outdoor excursion caleb
questions nathan about his lies
he reasons that he never actually won a
contest instead
he must have been carefully selected for
this task nathan reassures him that he
was chosen because he was the best
programmer at his company
in the shower caleb daydreams about
being outside with ava meanwhile nathan
pummels a heavy bag then grabs kyoko his
maid
and passionately makes out with her
later caleb spots nathan entering ava's
room on the security camera
he tears up and scatters ava's drawing
caleb goes off in search of nathan
he instead finds kyoko he tries to talk
to her but her only response is to
undress
he stops her telling her she doesn't
have to do that nathan enters the room
and reminds caleb that she doesn't speak
english
but she does dance he flips a switch and
music plays as the room changes colors
kyoko begins to dance skillfully caleb
asked nathan why he tore up ava's
drawing
and he counters with this dude check it
out
nathan and kyoko dance in synchrony
before the booze wears heavy on him
he stumbles to bed with caleb caleb
begins session 5 with ava
she decides she's going to test him this
time around she asks him a series of
questions and reminds him that she can
detect when he's lying
the questions begin as innocent ones
like what's your favorite color
and what's your earliest memory then ava
asks him if he's a good person
caleb lets out a nervous laugh remarking
that he's entered a minefield since
she's a walking lie detector he
eventually answers yes and ava accepts
his answer
she asks him what will happen if she
fails caleb's testing ava shuts the
power off and shows caleb the tournament
of drawing from last night
she tells him she wants to be with him
and ask him if he feels the same way
after the session caleb asked nathan why
he decided to create ava
he responds saying it was never a
decision that the arrival of strong ai
has been an inevitability for decades
a simple matter of when not if he tells
caleb that he believes the next model
after eva will be the true breakthrough
this troubles caleb deeply
caleb asked nathan what will happen to
the old ava he tells him that the body
will remain but the memories will be
gone
nathan proceeds to get drunk back at the
house he passes out and caleb stacks his
key card
he goes to his room and looks over the
security footage from the past he's
horrified to see all the different ai
models that nathan has created and
destroyed
caleb watches as one of the models begs
to be let out
[Music]
nathan of course refuses she is seen
banging on the walls until her robotic
arms break into pieces
caleb walks off and sees kyoko in
nathan's bedroom she's naked
he inspects the doors in the room to
find the bodies of the various robotic
women he saw in the videos
kyoko stands up and shows caleb what she
really is silently tearing off the
artificial skin on her belly and face
revealing a machine underneath caleb is
terrified and unable to sleep
he keeps thinking about what he saw he
heads to the bathroom and inspects his
eyes and mouth
perhaps he too is a robot he takes his
razor blade and cuts into his arm
inspecting his insides during his sixth
session with ava
caleb waits for her to trigger a power
cut before revealing to her that nathan
intends to effectively kill her by
rewriting her programming
she asks caleb to help her and he agrees
having already formulated a plan which
he intends to execute on tomorrow
he's going to get nathan drunk steal his
key card and override his security
protocol so that he and ava can flee
while nathan gets locked inside all ava
needs to do is trigger a power cut at 10
pm tomorrow
the following morning nathan exchanges
pleasantries with caleb about his final
day
caleb proposes a toast with alcohol but
nathan declines
he realizes he's been drinking too much
lately and has to caleb's may start at a
detox
nathan asked caleb if ava has passed the
turning test he says yes without
a doubt this surprises nathan
considering caleb's earlier skepticism
about the simulation vs actuality
argument
nathan asked caleb to consider whether
or not ava is simply pretending to like
him so that she can escape
he confronts caleb about his breakdown
in the bathroom and tells him he's been
having his head screwed with
caleb calls him a bastard but nathan
understands why he'd think that
he tells him he's off the hook and takes
him to his room to show him the moment
he installed the battery-powered camera
into the room
with this camera he was able to see
caleb scheming despite the power cuts
nathan reveals that the real test was
caleb in order for ava to escape
she'd have to utilize self-awareness
creativity empathy
sexuality and manipulation all markers
of a true conscious intelligence
caleb realizes that he wasn't chosen
because he was a good coder or had a
strong intellect
he was chosen because he had no
girlfriend no immediate family
and had a good moral compass caleb asked
nathan if he used his search history to
influence ava's design
he chuckles and admits to it the power
cuts and nathan teases caleb
then asks him what exactly he would have
done to escape caleb explains that he
was going to reprogram the security
protocol to unlock everything during
power cuts
instead of the reverse nathan remarks
that that might have worked
caleb cheekily agrees stating that
they're about to find out nathan is
stunned
caleb explains that he figured nathan
was probably still watching during the
power cuts
so he actually reprogrammed the security
system the previous night when nathan
was drunk
nathan checks the security cameras and
sees ava outside her room
ava meets up with kyoko and they have a
conversation that is not shown to the
viewer
nathan knocks out caleb and heads over
to ava ava charges nathan
but he overpowers her easily then breaks
off one of her arms
nathan begins dragging ava back to her
room when he walks into a knife that
kyoko is holding
he turns around in shock as he begins to
bleed out he destroys kyoko but ava
pulls the knife out and stabs him again
the knife enters him smooth as butter he
collapses and ava takes his key card
she makes her way to where caleb is and
tells him to stay there caleb watches
from the windows ava picks out a new arm
skin and hair from nathan's collection
of old robots
donning her new look ava heads out
leaving kayla behind
she doesn't so much as make eye contact
with him he screams for her
caleb attempts to break free to no avail
as ava leaves on the helicopter intended
for him
we last see ava in the middle of a busy
intersection watching people
well i don't know about you guys but i
think i got trust issues just watching
that
if you enjoyed the video please
subscribe thank you